AT&T Inc. is an American multinational conglomerate holding company, headquartered at Whitacre Tower in downtown Dallas, Texas AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company AT&T is the second largest provider of mobile telephone services and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States, and also provides broadband subscription television services through Uverse Tv service, and DirecTV threw the satellite subscription television, combined with AT&T's legacy U-verse service, this also makes AT&T the largest pay television operator. AT&T is the second-largest company in Texas, behind ExxonMobil. As of February 2017, AT&T is the 12th largest company in the world (non-oil and overall) as measured by a composite of revenues, profits, assets and market valuation. AT&T is the largest telecommunications company in the world by revenue. As of 2017, it is also the 21st-largest mobile telecom operator in the world, with 138.8 million mobile customers. AT&T was ranked at #4 on the 2017 rankings of the world's most valuable brands published by Brand Finance.

AT&T Inc. began its history as Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, which was a subsidiary of the Bell Telephone Company founded by Alexander Graham Bell in 1880. Bell Telephone Company evolved into American Telephone and Telegraph Company in 1885 which had since rebranded to AT&T Corporation. Following the 1982 United States v. AT&T antitrust lawsuit, this resulted in the divestiture of AT&T Corp.'s ("Ma Bell") subsidiaries or Regional Bell Operating Companies ("Baby Bells"), resulting in several independent companies including Southwestern Bell Corporation . Southwestern Bell Corporation changed its name to SBC Communications Inc. in 1995. In 2005, SBC purchased former parent AT&T Corporation and took on its branding, with the merged entity naming itself AT&T Inc. and using the iconic AT&T Corp. logo and stock-trading symbol. In 2006, AT&T Inc. acquired BellSouth, the last of the independent Baby Bell, making their formerly joint venture Cingular Wireless (which had acquired AT&T Wireless in 2004) wholly owned and rebranding it to AT&T Mobility.

The current AT&T Inc. reconstitutes much of the former Bell System and includes ten of the original 22 Bell Operating Companies, along with the original long distance division.