Nokia (Finnish: Nokia, Finnish pronunciation: [ˈno, UK: /ˈnɒkiə/, US: /ˈnoʊkiə/) is a Finnish multinational communications, information technology and consumer electronics company, founded in 1865. Nokia's headquarters are in Espoo, Uusimaa, in the greater Helsinki metropolitan area In 2016, Nokia employed approximately 101,000 people across over 100 countries, did business in more than 130 countries, and reported annual revenues of around €23.6 billion Nokia is a public limited company listed on the Helsinki Stock Exchange and New York Stock Exchange It is the world's 415th-largest company measured by 2016 revenues according to the Fortune Global 500, and is a component of the Euro Stoxx 50 stock market index.

The company has had various industries in its 152-year history. It was founded as a pulp mill, but since the 1990s focuses on large-scale telecommunications infrastructures, technology development and licensing Nokia is also a major contributor to the mobile telephony industry, having assisted in the development of the GSM, 3G and LTE standards, and was, for a period, the largest vendor of mobile phones in the world, its dominance also extending into the smartphone industry. After a partnership with Microsoft and market struggles, its mobile phone business was eventually bought by the former with Microsoft Mobile formed as the business' successor when the deal was completed on 25 April 2014. After the sale of its mobile phone business, Nokia began to focus more extensively on its telecommunications infrastructure business, marked by the divestiture of its Here Maps division and the acquisition of French-American telecommunications company Alcatel-Lucent. Nokia also entered virtual reality and digital health (the latter by purchasing Withings). The Nokia brand has since returned to the mobile and smartphone market through a licensing arrangement with HMD Global.

The company is viewed with national pride by Finns, as its successful mobile phone business made it by far the largest worldwide company and brand from Finland. At its peak in 2000, Nokia alone accounted for 4% of the country's GDP, 21% of total exports and 70% of the Helsinki Stock Exchange market capital.